Feature: Additional Tutorials (#5622)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/help.txt

help "map"
	`This map shows all the star systems you know about and the hyperspace links between them. You can use the map to plot a hyperspace course by clicking on the system you want to travel to. To initiate a jump to that system, close the map and press <Initiate hyperspace jump>.`

help "map advanced"

> 	`As you explore more of the galaxy, the star map will quickly become a very powerful tool. Clicking on a distant system will automatically plot the quickest route to it. If you have missions spread across several systems, you can shift-click each to plot a route between them, or control-click a system to inspect missions there without setting a route.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`As you explore more of the galaxy, the star map will quickly become a very powerful tool. Clicking on a distant system will automatically plot the quickest route to it. You can shift-click on systems to plot a route between them, or control-click a system to select it without setting a route.`
```

> 	`There are also many other useful modes the map can be set to. Click on one of the buttons in the lower right corner to learn more.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`There are many other useful modes the map can be set to. Click on one of the buttons in the lower right corner to learn more.`
```

help "map advanced ports"

> 	`The Ports panel provides detailed information about every planet, station, or other stellar objects you've come across. Most information can be clicked on (like the word "Outfitter", or on the price of a trade good), which will color every system on the star map appropriately.`
> 	`For instance, you can click on "(has been visited)" to see which planets you've visited or not, or click on a trade good price to show how prices change throughout the galaxy. If you have a route planned already, this can be combined with a control-click to inspect trade good prices at stops along the way. A key will be shown on the right to let you know what colors mean in any given mode.`

Reviewer: You may need to break this up into two different help dialogs if this is too long. (After reading one, the second one would show.)
```suggestion
	`The ports panel shows you where systems with spaceports are, as well as a plethora of other information. The panel can be switched to multiple separate keys which each show different information about the systems you've visited.`
	`Clicking on the name of the system or the word under the name of any planets in the system on the left side of the screen will switch the map to the reputation key. This will show you which planets are friendly, hostile, or have restricted landing access in each system. Note that if a system has any friendly planet in it, then the system will show as friendly, so be careful about friendly planets in potentially hostile regions of space.`
	`Clicking on the government of the system will switch the map to the government key, highlighting inhabited system according to which government owns them.`
	`Clicking the name of a planet, or clicking on a planet in the orbit map on the right side of the screen, will show that planet's description if you have visited it already. Clicking a planet on the orbit map will also tell your auto-pilot to land on that planet after you have arrived at that system at the end of your jump path.`
	`Clicking on the words "Shipyard" or "Outfitter" under a planet name will change the map key to show how many ships or outfits are for sale on each planet.`
	`Clicking on "(has been visited)" or "(not yet visited)" under a planet name will change the map to the visited planets key, showing the systems where you have visited all, some, or none of the planets.`
	`Clicking on any trade commodity will use the trade key, highlighting the map according to the prices of that commodity in each system.`
```

Author: The problem with the Ports panel isn't that every clickable text isn't fully enumerated, it's that people don't know you can click anything at _all_. By encouraging the player to experiment with clicking on different elements, combined with pointing out the color key should get most people through it, while drastically cutting down on text and button presses. I definitely want to avoid multiple pages as well, since that can frustrating and overwhelming trying to close a prompt, only for another to appear, then _another_ to appear, especially when it's line after line of "Clicking on <text> will...".

Pointing out the interactive system map is definitely some major undocumented functionality, though. I'm going to try and see if I can neatly fit that in with something similar to the original. If not, or if you feel otherwise, we'll go with the multiple pages.

Reviewer: As I said, I'd rather these be overly thorough than too vague. If we want to cut down on the wordiness of this, then instead of describing the result of clicking on each UI element, we simply describe each UI element that can be clicked on.
```suggestion
	`The ports panel shows you where systems with spaceports are, as well as a plethora of other information. The panel can be switched to multiple separate keys which each show different information about the systems you've visited.`
	 `Clicking on the name of the system, the government of the system, the lines under the name of each planet, or any trade commodity will change the map to use a different key, the purpose of which can be found on the right side of the screen.`
	 `Clicking the name of a planet, or clicking on a planet in the orbit map on the right side of the screen, will show that planet's description if you have visited it already. Clicking a planet on the orbit map will also tell your auto-pilot to land on that planet after you have arrived at that system at the end of your jump path.`
```

Author: That looks much better. Erring on the side of thoroughness is good, and these tutorials being delayed gives more wiggle room, but it's still a pretty careful balance to maintain.

help "map advanced shops"

> 	`Both the Shipyard and Outfitter panels give the same information: A catalog of any items you've seen in your career, providing detailed statistics at any time. Items will be in categories on the left side of the screen, which can be collapsed individually, or all at once with shift-click on a category name. You can also use the "Find" button in the bottom right to search by name.`
> 	`When selecting an item, the details will appear in the top-right. Ports which sell it will be colored yellow, while ports with the correct shop but not the item will be colored teal. You can compare what you've selected with a second item with shift-click, which will put both details side-by-side.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`The shipyard and outfitter map panels respectively display the ships and outfits sold on any planets that you have seen. Ships and outfits are displayed in categories which can be collapsed by clicking on the category name. Using shift+click on a category name will collapse or uncollapse all the categories at once. Each ship or outfit can be clicked on, displaying that item's stats while also highlighting any planets where it is sold. Using shift+click on a ship or outfit after you already have one selected will display that item's stats side by side the the previously selected item.`
```

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4471575/104132818-5216b200-5345-11eb-9011-46718041e407.png)
That ends up more succinct on paper, but in game it ends up being 18 lines without a line break of any kind. They are short lines, but it's still a big block of unbroken text. Could we just have a line break before "Each ship"?

Also, for <key>+click, that's what I started with, but then noticed `outfitter 2` uses "control-clicking". Do should we use + or - for those key combos? Or, are they separate and it's "<key>+click" and "<key>-clicking"?

Reviewer: Outfitter 2 is a new help dialog as well. I'd standardize it to "+click," since it's describing two keys/actions being pressed at once, key 1 plus key 2. In the ship controls for example, we're using "control+number."

I also notice how in my suggestions I've lowercased "control," but in previous help dialogs it's capitalized "Control," as well as "Shift" and "Alt." I'd lowercase those, but since the older help dialogs use uppercase then I'd be find with just sticking with uppercase, so long as we remain consistent with it.

help "multiple ships"

> 	`Now that you have more than one ship, while landed on a planet you can reorder the ships in your fleet by clicking and dragging them in the shipyard, outfitter, or player info panel. You will use the first ship in the list as your flagship. In the player info panel you can also "park" a ship on a planet if you want to travel somewhere without it coming with you.`

Reviewer: Give the key for the player info panel the first time it is mentioned, which in this case would mean mentioning the key in "multiple ships" instead of "multiple ship controls".
```suggestion
	`Now that you have more than one ship, while landed on a planet you can reorder the ships in your fleet by clicking and dragging them in the shipyard, outfitter, or player info panel. You will use the first ship in the list as your flagship. In the player info panel (accessed with <View player info>) you can also "park" a ship on a planet if you want to travel somewhere without it coming with you.`
```

help "multiple ship controls"

> 	`When in flight with multiple ships, you have a variety of detailed commands you can give them. A full list can be seen in the Preferences pane, with <Fleet: Hold position> to have your fleet hold position, or <Fleet: Fight my target> to have your fleet focus your target as examples. These orders will apply to all ships by default, or to your selected ones, if any.`
> 	`You can select specific escorts by directly clicking on them, or clicking and dragging your mouse to select a group with a box. These groups can be saved with a control group, by setting one with Control+number key, then recalled with that number key. These can also be set in the Player Info panel, accessed with <View player info>.`
> 	`Escorts can also be commanded with the mouse. Right Click on empty space will order escorts to fly to and hold a position, while a click on a hostile ship will focus fire, and a click on a friendly target will cause them to follow.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`You are able to give various commands to any escorts that you own. Commands will be given to all selected escorts, or if no escorts are selected then all your escorts will receive the command. Escorts can be selected by either clicking on them in space, clicking the ship icon at the bottom left of the screen, clicking the ship in the player info panel, or by clicking and dragging to select a group of escorts in space.`
	`Escorts can be saved into control groups by pressing Control+a number key. All selected escorts will then be bound to that number key, and pressing that key will select all escorts in the group.`
	`Commands that can be given include pressing <Fleet: Hold position> to have your escorts hold position or <Fleet: Fight my target> to have your escorts focus fire on the selected ship. A full list of escort commands can be found in the preferences panel.`
	`Escorts can also be commanded with the mouse. Right clicking on an empty point in space will order escorts to fly to and hold position at that point, while clicking on a hostile ship will order your escorts to focus fire on it, and clicking on a friendly target will cause them to follow it.`
```

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4471575/104133649-880a6500-534a-11eb-9328-d5e60229f679.png)

This just barely overflows on my 1366x768 laptop, and while that small resolution shouldn't be sacrosanct, it's a good indicator it's getting too long. And unlike the Ports tutorial below, this doesn't seem to introduce any new information the previous didn't have. What did you want to do with expanding the text? Is there a way we can strike a balance between the two?

Reviewer: How does it look if we ditch the examples of commands and just point the player to the preferences and shorten up some other parts?
```suggestion
	`You can give orders to any escorts that you own. Orders will be given to all selected escorts, or if no escorts are selected then all your escorts will receive the order. Escorts can be selected by either clicking on them in space, clicking the ship icon at the bottom left of the screen, clicking the ship in the player info panel, or by clicking and dragging to select a group of escorts in space. The list of escort order keys can be found in the preferences panel.`
	`Escorts can also be ordered with the mouse. Right clicking on an empty point in space will order escorts to fly to and hold position at that point, while clicking on a hostile ship will order your escorts to focus fire on it, and clicking on a friendly target will cause them to follow it.`
	`Escorts can be saved into control groups by pressing Control+number key. All selected escorts will then be bound to that number key, selecting the group when pressed.`
```

Author: I personally prefer the flow of "All escorts will follow an order you give, unless you have selected ones, in which case only they will follow it. Then here's how you select them." But either way it looks good, yeah.

As for the player info panel, I've mostly used it as a convenient way of setting control groups when you don't have to worry about picking ships out from a cluster in space. But it's mostly a convenience, yeah, so it can be cut from a tutorial while in flight.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4471575/104135196-2c44d980-5354-11eb-8272-8b2d5c38f5d1.png)

Just added a little pre-amble like `multiple ships`, since the "You can give orders to any escorts you own" looked a little abrupt when taking off. Also changed "groups" to "control groups", A) To add another word to get rid of those massive spaces, and B) to point out to people familiar from RTS games that these are similar. Otherwise, looks much better now.

	`There are many other useful modes the map can be set to. Click on one of the buttons in the lower right corner to learn more.`

help "map advanced ports"
	`The ports panel shows you where systems with spaceports are, as well as a plethora of other information. Clicking on the name of the system, the government of the system, the lines under the name of each planet, or any trade commodity will color the map differently, the key to which can be seen on the right side of the screen.`
	`Clicking the name of a planet, or clicking on a planet in the orbit map on the right side of the screen, will show that planet's description if you have visited it already. Clicking a planet on the orbit map will also tell your auto-pilot to land on that planet after you have arrived at that system at the end of your jump path.`

help "map advanced shops"
	`The shipyard and outfitter map panels respectively display the ships and outfits sold on any planets that you have seen. Ships and outfits are displayed in categories which can be collapsed by clicking on the category name. Using Shift+click on a category name will collapse or uncollapse all the categories at once.`

> 	`Each ship or outfit can be clicked on, displaying that item's stats while also highlighting any planets where it is sold. Using Shift+click on a ship or outfit after you already have one selected will display that item's stats side by side the the previously selected item.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`Each ship or outfit can be clicked on, displaying that item's stats while also highlighting any planets where it is sold. Using Shift+click on a ship or outfit after you already have one selected will display that item's stats side by side with the previously selected item.`
```

help "map"
	`This map shows all the star systems you know about and the hyperspace links between them. You can use the map to plot a hyperspace course by clicking on the system you want to travel to. To initiate a jump to that system, close the map and press <Initiate hyperspace jump>.`

help "map advanced"

> 	`As you explore more of the galaxy, the star map will quickly become a very powerful tool. Clicking on a distant system will automatically plot the quickest route to it. You can shift-click on systems to plot a route between them, or control-click to select it there setting a route.`

Reviewer: Looks like I accidentally dropped the wrong word. Adding a bit more though just to flesh out the description.
```suggestion
	`As you explore more of the galaxy, the star map will quickly become a very powerful tool. Clicking on a distant system will automatically plot the quickest route to it. You can shift-click on multiple systems to plot a route between them, or control-click to select a system without setting a route to it.`
```
